We just took a look at the Spring Boot  auto configuration properties. What we wanted to do now is take a live look
at that stuff you do some really like maybe a command line and we're going to take a look at the auto
configuration properties take a little peek under the covers of what good is doing I'm going to show
you how to get a debug report out of spring boot to see all that all the configuration stuff that's
going on.
Force within Spring and Spring Boot.
OK.
Let's go in and look at some of those Spring Boot stuff that we talked about.
And one is a SpringBootApplication and this is annotation that we like.
And this is our recipe application.
This is what makes it a Spring Boot Application.
And if we do a control click on that or command click, you can see it brings that up and we can see here's
the AutoConfiguration, the ComponentScan and SpringBootConfiguration so that brings up all the configuration
attributes of the SpringBootConfiguration.
Not wrong that here it's from Configuration.
So that's the three annotations that it brings an end to the world so that's what is enabling our application
to run.
Now see if I can find that DataSource class
you can see right down here DataSourceAutoConfiguration.
So this is the Spring Boot Auto Configuration as being used for the DataSource so I want to show you
guys real quick.
So we can see this this is coming out of a jar you can see on the top left here this the spring-boot-autoconfigure
jar.
And so that's a configuration and it's got this annotation ConditionalOnClass.
That means if in the Spring Context we have not defined a DataSource or an embedded database type,
this is going to kick in so and then it kicks in from there so that these are all ConditionalOnMissingBean
so we don't have a DataSourceInitializer and they're ordering some properties and so a lot going
on here some advanced configuration inside a Spring so this all configuration or dependency on whether
or not you've defined things.
So this allows you to easily override stuff because if you provide one of these beans then this configuration
doesn't kick in.
That's making sense to you so that this allows Spring Boot to go out and create the beans.
But then you've done a Spring Configuration and defined one of these Beans for a specific type then
AutoConfiguration inside a Spring Boot doesn't kick in and you don't get a duplicate being created.
Now I want to show you some of the command line tools as well.
And when I toggle over command line and let's look at a couple of things here.
So this is a running maven and we can run the spring-boot plugin and help.
And this is going to show us all the
It's actually providing detailed help there to the different options.
So you do start, stop, run.
And these are the parameters that we can define as we're running with them so I'm not going to go to
every one there.
You can go through and take a look at it as needed.
And what I want to do also is spring-boot run.
And if passed a command line argument to spring-boot debug it's going to give us a Auto Configuration
report.
I am going to run that now and it's going to bring up our application.
It's either the usual chatter there and now this is Unconditional Classes, Exclusions, this is all the Spring Boot
Configuration so you see a lot of like WebMVC with  flux.
So a lot of conditional stuff is going on and we've been using Thymeleaf and see there's a whole section
on Thymeleaf properties here.
A lot of stuff that did not go on so this is going to go through and fine all the Spring Boot
Auto configuration Beans and here's RabbitAutoConfiguration.
Obviously we're not using RabbitMQ in this project.
So this is stuff that did not match and and we say we didn't find no Rabbit dependencies are there
so it's not going to kick in the Rabbit configuration. I am going to close this down now.
And I want to show you a trick inside of intellij. Come back over here and
if we come up here to our Run dialogue, Edit Configurations and this gives us options for that Run dialogue
and we have a couple options here and one is the Enable debug output
and that gives us the same thing, going to Apply then say OK.
Now when I run this, next time it runs we'll see the debug output inside of intellij, so kind
of handy thing for us to use with Spring Boot and works a little bit better on the screen because we're
not don't have the wrapping.
So now you can see a lot of the Auto Configuration and scroll up towards the top of this and we start
taking a look at what was configured for us and obviously the Auto Configuration is quite lengthy.
And that was just a list of the negative matches.
Not a lot in this project so we're going to have a lot of negative matches but you can also see there's
a lot of things that it did Auto Configure for us.
So like the timely template template resolvers that's all wired up for us.
The Spring web MVC stuff, the Tomcat Rest template Auto Configuration so we got that right
on the box.
And this is really one of powerful things about Spring Boot is that this before Spring Boot these are
all components that you would have to wire up yourself lihe here's a Jackson Message Converter.
There's a Jackson means for converting JSON that's already on the class path, already in the Spring Context,
so our application already is ready to accept
JSON, so we don't have to wire in Jackson.
Here's the H2ConsoleAutoConfiguration so I saw that and the Spring Boot Auto Configuration kicked
in.
Now you saw quite a bit of stuff going on there under the covers within Spring Boot.
Like I said there's a lot of stuff that we normally would have to configure if we didn't have Spring
Boot.
And this is all Beans that we'd be wiring up just before we got our little web application come up so we've
been really leveraging that a lot because all this comes out of the box with Spring Boot. That's exactly
why I've been using Spring Boot,so you can get up and working with Spring rapidly and quickly and later in
this course we are going to start removing Spring Boot.
So we are going to definitely be working with a lot more of the stuff that we saw in our configuration.
We're going to get into that a lot deeper going forward but I want to get you exposed to what's going
on and get you a little more comfortable because I see a lot of people coming through to try and learn
Spring Framework and Spring Boot's been a huge blessing to the community.
It's a huge time saver but for people new to the Spring Framework, they get confused about what Spring
Boot is.
A lot of the industry getting confused like other surveys about Are you developing web applications with
Spring MVC or spring Boot. Spring Boot is just a wrapper around the Spring framework. It gives you
a lot of activity tools.
Spring Boot is not a web application, Spring MVC is the web application so I see a lot of confusion about
which pieces doing that so keep in the back of your head that Spring Boot is really a configuration
wrapper around all of the Spring framework. All the web stuff that's going to be going through Spring MVC,
security stuff is going to be going through Spring security, Spring Boot is just giving you sensible defaults
for all the stuff that we're going to be using and stuff that you can override and we'll definitely be getting
into that going forward and of course.